So for people who say, "Okay, so you
want me to be in nutritional ketosis,
which means I'm going to eat more fat
than I'm used to eating because I
usually, you know, live on
carbohydrates. So am I going to be
trading cancer? Maybe I'll kill the
cancer cells, but do I then get heart
disease and have a heart attack or have
blocked arteries?"
>> No, I we you actually get super healthy.
>> Hey guys, thank you so much for watching
our videos. If you'd like to support us
some more, you can explore our homemade
natural skincare products at purely
tallow.com. Thank you so much for
supporting my small business. Hey
everybody, welcome to the Carnivore
Revolution. I'm Serena and my guest
today is Dr. Seaff Freed. Dr. Seaff
Freed is a cancer specialist, a cancer
scientist and I'm really glad to have
you here today, Dr. Seaff Freed. Thank
you so much for taking the time.
>> Well, thank you Serena. It's nice to be
here
>> and I think this is a really important
conversation because I would say that
every person who is listening to this or
watching this has been touched by cancer
with more than 1,700 people dying every
day of cancer. Everybody has been
touched by that. And so I think it's a
really important conversation to have.
>> Yes, I agree.
>> So tell us first how this happened, how
you became uh interested in studying and
helping people fight cancer. Well, as I
said in in some of these shows before, I
mean, it wasn't our intention at the
beginning to um to get into this um
space, I guess you can call it, but the
research took us here and um we have
been researching the metabolism of
cancer now for quite quite some time. I
wrote a I wrote a book on this cancer as
a metabolic disease on the origin,
management and prevention of cancer.
based on the research that we had done
here at Boston College and decades of
research in the field of epilepsy and
ketogenic diets and things like this. So
it became just a a crossover of fields
before we realized that um Otto Werberg
had defined the nature of cancer back
almost 100 years ago. In fact, it was
100 years ago. And his um descriptions
of the abnormal metabolism
uh in cancer is what we have have also
uh seen in no uncertain terms. I mean
there are some things that we're
clearing up about what Warberg had found
and modernizing a lot of what he he
originally did. But the bottom line is
that we can't find any cancer cells that
can grow uh without um fermentation
energy which is driven by the sugar
glucose and the amino acid glutamine.
Meaning that uh most cancers have a
common problem. They they need a
fermentation energy that's energy
without oxygen. And that clearly tells
us the pl the path for the best
management and also prevention of
cancer. So once you know that then the
the path forward becomes very clear on
how to do this. The problem is of course
you have um an industry both uh academic
pharmaceutical industries that are still
locked onto the fact they think that
cancer is a genetic disease which it's
not and then you have all of the
so-called treatments um and procedures
that are all linked into that view. So,
and it's very hard to change an um a
dogmatic ideology, an indoctrination so
to speak of both of both industry and
academics to te to change the path. But
eventually it will move into the right
direction. It just it just takes time.
>> So what does it mean that cancer is a is
a metabolic disease? What does that
mean?
>> It means that they it's how they get
everything comes back to energy. Without
energy, nothing can grow. Um so how how
does the cancer cell get energy? So what
it's then it comes back to metabolism.
Uh how how you generate energy from
nutrients. So we eat food, we breathe
oxygen. All right? So otherwise we'd be
dead. So h we get energy from oxidative
phosphorilation. That's why we breathe
air and we breathe oxygen in the air.
And that allows us to um capture the
energy and the and the carbon hydrogen
bonds of the foods that we eat. those
carbon hydrogen bonds originally
produced from the energy of the sun. So
we we have a a me a method within our
cells that breaks carbon hydrogen bonds
uh using oxygen uh to facilitate this
process. Uh cancer cells don't do that.
They they can live without oxygen. So
how do they live without oxygen? And the
answer is they use an ancient pathways
of fermentation which are the pathways
that uh were used by all living things
on the planet before oxygen came into
the atmosphere 2.5 billion years ago. So
the cancer cells are simply falling back
on these ancient pathways. Uh and they
don't need oxygen. And that's one of the
great differences between normal cells
and cancer cells. the normal cells need
oxygen to to live and survive where
cancer cells use a ancient pathway of
fermentation. So people say well then
what's the energy for fermentation and
we have interrogated these tumor cells
up and down and they can't live without
the sugar glucose or the amino acid
glutamine. So that tells us if we take
away glucose and glutamine, they become
vulnerable to death and they can't
transition to fatty acids or ketone
bodies because that requires oxygen and
they don't use oxygen. So it becomes now
a straightforward way to kill and manage
kill the tumor cells without harming the
body and that's the the strategy that
will work and will eventually become the
standard of care. It's just that we're
locked into a big standard procedure
that makes it hard to move that. So,
some people believe that there is some
sort of big conspiracy theory um that
they want to keep us sick, whoever they
are. Um I find that hard to believe. But
if these things are true, if we can kill
cancer cells by starving them of glucose
and glutamine, then why isn't this
common knowledge? And why aren't we
treating it like that here?
>> Well, it's because of the ideological
dogma. Why do you think a devout
Christian could not accept Islam as the
true religion or vice versa? That's
called dogma. That's it's an effect on
the brain. Okay. Um it took many
hundreds of years for the Catholic
Church to realize that the uh earth was
not the center of the solar system. They
claimed it uh they claimed it was the
earth. They didn't recognize that it was
the sun. And if you ch ch ch ch ch ch ch
ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch
challenge the dogma and the authority of
power uh you would be burned at the
stake like they did to Godano Bruno.
Okay, that's because the dogma said the
earth was the center of the solar system
and if you challenged it like like
Galileo, you were house arrested and if
you challenged it like Bruno, you were
burned at the stake. Eventually it was
realized that no, the sun is in fact the
center of the solar system and people
the uh advancement of knowledge happened
that way. So, so we right now we're
locked into the the ideology that cancer
is a genetic disease and we've spent
hundreds of billions of dollars on the
cancer genome projects. We're spending
millions and millions of dollars on new
cancer therapies, imunotherapies and all
of these things. Those are the the
products of the genetic theory of
cancer. But if cancer is not a genetic
theory, it's not a a gene link
phenomenon, then all that stuff will
never be optimal. And that's what we're
seeing. That's why we have 1,700 people
a day dying. The promise of putting
hundreds and hundreds of millions of
dollars into chasing genes and target
and precision medicine and all this kind
of stuff is not coming to fruition.
Cancer is killing more and more people.
And we're doing all this stuff and with
the stuff that we're doing is based on a
flawed theory. And if the theory is not
correct, then you're then you're not
going to get it's not that they uh they
ignore a lot of it or or say, well, if
if all of these big medical schools and
all of these academic centers say cancer
is a genetic disease, how could it be
possible that all these people are
wrong? And the fact is is I don't know
if they don't want to accept it or
they're it's not profitable to accept
it. There's a lot of reasons and the
ideology says it can't be that. Uh we've
had some distinguished scientists say
that if we're right that cancer is a
metabolic disease, we'll have to
overturn almost everything in the field
and therefore it can't be it can't be
right. So um so that's not a conspiracy
theory. That's called ideological dogma.
It's like a religion. It's like a
political affiliation. These are
dogmatic views and the way they affect
the rational mind. And it sometimes
takes time for for this to but the the
bottom line we have here is the
resistance to accepting cancer as a
metabolic disorder driven by
fermentation. The failure to accept that
is the is is ultimately responsible in
large part for the 1,700 people a day
dying from the disorder.
>> If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer. The new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rockermeer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement.
Starting with the general scientific
concepts by Dr. Thomas Ciphford. We will
show you how to start the ketogenic
diet, including which foods to choose
and which to avoid. Additionally, we
prepared a list of doctors specialized
in metabolic therapy, as well as details
about glutamine inhibition and
hyperbaric oxygen protocols. So, take a
look around at school.com/ keto for
cancer.
So, if the people are okay and
comfortable with the progress that we're
making, then then uh stay the course.
But if they're not uh um comfortable
with the progress we're making, they
might want to reconsider, you know, why
why they go to hospitals and get
poisoned and radiated uh and and and and
ask the right question. They're not
asking the right questions. They're not
offered alternative therapies. And the
beat goes on. 1,700 people. That's
almost in an hour we have almost 70
people dead in an hour from cancer
across the United States. So uh so the
the failure to to recognize this
disorder as a metabolic disorder is
ultimately responsible for the fiasco
and the crisis that we have right now.
>> So they bring you in, they give you
radiation and chemotherapy to kill the
cancer cells and then they feed you
orange juice and a cookie and run
glucose through the lines to clean out
the lines before they send you home.
>> Yeah. And that's due to the lack of
knowledge.
>> Yeah.
>> So, um, they're not trained. These not
are not bad people.
>> They're just not trained to know what
the nature of the disorder is. So, the
outcome is obvious when you don't know
what the nature of the disorder is.
>> You treat people in a very inappropriate
way. So, there's no conspiracy here.
>> Conspiracy means you know how to how to
manage something and you just choose not
to do it. That's not the case.
>> That's not the case. This is what we
call lack of knowledge and uh lack of
training uh and failure to read the
scientific literature uh on a lot of
these parts. So this all and the
ideological dogma all goes together uh
for the resistance or the lack of
advance.
>> I've heard a lot of people talk about
how they're really tired after
chemotherapy and so they go in a couple
of days later to get what they call
fluids which is you know some glucose
water, some electrolytes. You know it's
more sugar that they're giving them. um
to give them energy after they have had
the chemo. And so once again, they're
you're going to the hospital to do that
and going to a cancer center and then
they're just feeding the cancer, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but but they don't
know that.
>> Okay. And and when you tell them that,
they get angry sometimes. So, uh because
that makes them how is it possible that
the patient might know this and the very
care does caregiver doesn't know that.
>> So, what do you think the response is
going to be? you're a person not trained
uh in the profession is telling the
trained professional that what they're
doing could be harmful. Uh same thing
with the biopsies. I mean there's so
many scientific articles written on
biopsy spreading cancer throughout the
person's body. Why would you do that if
you know that it would be harmful to the
patient and why are you taking the
biopsy in the first place? I mean all or
you want to uh just assume that it is
malignant uh without even looking at it
and then just do metabolic therapy and
it will either shrink away or get really
small and then you can just do a small
surgical procedure and get rid of it. So
there's a lot of things we're doing that
we really don't need to do and many
things that are being done that actually
are are potentially harmful to the
patient without being recognized as
being harmful.
>> So how do we teach them? How do we get
to a point where people like you who
know this and know that that sugar feeds
cancer cells? And I knew that long
before I became a carnivore that sugar
feeds canceds cancer cells. That's why
when they do the PET scan and do all
those tests, they put sugar in your
veins. They, you know, they give you
sugar and it goes straight to the cancer
and it lights up. And that's really cool
because that's how we can find the
cancer. But we're also feeding the
cancer. So if I knew that sugar feeds
cancer cells, why does just a normal
oncologist or a normal doctor not know
that and tell people to stay away from
sugar or do a ketogenic diet?
>> They do what the what the system tells
them to do. All right? If the system
tells them to do this, they do it right.
So every every they have called a
standard of care for every disease that
that we are treating. there's a
so-called standard of care that's used
that's recognized by the the system the
the community of of professionals and
that must be followed. Uh and if you
don't follow that you could lose your
license because you're doing something
that's not sanctioned by the system. So
if the system says cancer is a genetic
disease and radiation now I have to I
have to be honest with you. We spent
billions of dollars on the genome
project with the promise that we would
be able to target specific genes in your
cancer and manage it in a precision uh
type of uh therapeutic strategy. Okay.
But if but if cancer is not a genetic
disease that that strategy is ultimately
not going to work. So, it's hard to say
that we've spent, you know, 15 years,
maybe more, 20, uh, building these
incredibly dense genomic maps that we
would then hopefully be able to target
the cancer and then manage and and bring
the death rate way down. Well, that has
not happened. It's been a big bust. Uh,
it hasn't worked. We got more cancer
today than we've ever had. So clearly uh
it's hard to swallow the pill that
there's many many wasted years in
looking at gene when cancer is not a
genetic dise it's not a genetic
disorder. So every cancer cell has
hundreds and hundreds of different
targetable mutations and they're all
different from one cell to the next and
that can explain why many of these new
therapies that you hear advertised on
television are not working for the
majority of people. It's not a mystery
to me. makes perfect sense and we're
never going to change this if we keep
viewing cancer as a genetic disease. The
problem is Nobel prizes have been
awarded to scientists uh who then are
supposed to have this kind of a
knowledge to move the field forward. But
that uh solidification of the academic
and uh pharmaceutical industries around
the misunderstanding of what the nature
of the disease is is ultimately
responsible for the failure to uh move
the field forward. So the promise of all
this money that we've spent uh never
came. So we continue to use toxic
radiation and poisons that we've always
used. So we were hoping to get rid of
radiation and chemo and use precision
medicine, but it's not work. Precision
medicine can can sometimes kill you
faster than the cancer can. So it's not
we're not moving anything. We're st
we're st we're stuck uh in this in this
vortex of of of going nowhere. And uh
until the cancer rec is recognized as a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder, we're
not going to make any major advance in
dropping the death rate. Period.
>> And I've heard you talk about like the
Inuit people and studies that have been
done on people um you know either from
the past or current Inuit people that do
not have cancer or did not have cancer
before. And so can you talk about that a
little bit a bit like the introduction
of the processed foods and so much sugar
and all of that? Well, I think that's
where uh we we see that our folks
populations that have been evaluated
thoroughly
um living according to their traditional
ways whether it was the Inuit or whether
it was Aboriginals in Australia or
certain tribes in Africa. These folks uh
were rare. Cancer was un not a
recognized disorder in in those groups
of people and they all ate traditional
diets from whatever region they were uh
part of
on the planet. So where did all this
cancer come from? And it becomes very
clear when when the Inouit folks stopped
eating uh their traditional diets and
switched to the uh great American diet
and lifestyle. Then they got massively
fat, type 2 diabetes, uh dementia and
cancer. Uh all of these chronic diseases
came very very quickly within a
generation or two. And now they're some
of the sickest folks on the planet. And
I went I had a chance to talk about this
at the uh Thunder Bay Medical School
which services many of the Inouit folks
and they were telling about how
incredibly uh debilitated they are with
all these chronic diseases that they
that they never had. So clearly it's a
diet and lifestyle and that's one of the
greatest exports of us. Our American and
diet lifestyle is exported around the
world and as soon as people start
adapting to it, you get chronic diseases
uh cancer, dementia, type two diabetes,
obesity. I mean it's very clear. It's
very clear. I mean there's no mystery
here. It's uh so that and that creates
systemic inflammation, damages oxidative
phosphorilation and then you get uh
disregulated cell growth which is cancer
and that also leads to mutations in the
genome as a downstream effect. So the
mutations in the genome are another
effect. They're not the cause, they're
the effect. So targeting effects will
never be optimal in trying to manage the
disease. You got to keep your
mitochondria healthy. Uh and the
probability of getting cancer, the risk
is significantly lower.
>> And there have been studies using rats
and chimpanzees and things like that to
study.
>> Oh, not chimpanzees. Not chimpanzees.
And I I brought that to the attention of
two zookeepers, one in San Diego and one
one here in Boston at the Franklin Zoo
because we have a great Well, we don't
have chimps, we have gorillas, but I but
I've spoken to other folks about
chimpanzees. And um you know, chimps
will will eat uh uh the same stuff that
we eat if you give them McDonald's
hamburgers or Burger King or or Taco
Bell or a jelly donut. I mean, they'll
they'll love it. Yeah.
>> But the problem is you have to take
little chimps u right after you know
they're weaned
>> and you have to put them on the great
American diet and lifestyle and then you
have to see how much uh cancer obesity
and all the things that we have. But
when I asked them to do that I said do
you ever have an experiment? This would
be great. They said that would be animal
cruelty. Now the the chimpanzeee and us
are 98% similar in gene and protein
sequences. They're our closest
biological relative. As a matter of
fact, we don't even need to do use the
chimps because we know what's going to
come out. We know what's going to
happen. We use the inowits and we use
the use these other folks that clearly
show when you switch the diet American
diet lifestyle, you get cancer and fat
and demented and all the other things
that go along with it. So, this is not a
mystery. I don't know why anybody thinks
this is a big mystery.
>> Yeah. There was a study though that you
have talked about in the past with um
rats and something where you feed the
cancer cells and see what happens,
right?
>> We don't feed
>> the ketogenic diet.
>> Oh, we don't feed the the cancer cells
to the mice.
>> No, I mean, no, you feed their cancer
cells like what was that study that I
heard you I'll take this part out. What
was that study I heard you talk about
where or you've seen in rats and mice
ketogenic diet versus sugar for cancer?
Wasn't there something like that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, obviously when you
when you well it's mostly calorie
restriction. When you lower the calories
into the body, the body naturally adapts
to a lower lower energy and uh what
happens the tumor cells are locked into
a fermentation which means you have to
have large amounts of fermentable fuels
in the micro environment of the tumor to
sustain its growth because fermentation
metabolism is a very is is a very
inefficient way to get energy and as the
result you have to have a lot of
logistic supplies of the fermentable
fuels. So as you lower the blood sugar,
the tumor cells are more affected uh
than the normal cells. The normal cells
switch over to ketones which is a
evolutionarily conserved adaptation. As
a matter of fact, our paleolithic
ancestors uh those folks that the hunter
gatherers uh would have always been in a
state of nutritional ketosis
>> because there was not there were no
delicateessins or fast food on every
corner in the Paleolithic period. There
was none of that. In fact, we didn't
even harvest grains. We live several uh
hundred thousand years uh without
grains. So grain cultivation in the
Neolithic period was the beginning of
civilization where people could build uh
houses and cities around farms and then
you could either uh um manage uh
livestock or or grain and you could keep
everybody in one in one location. You
didn't have to go out and track down
your dinner every night to to feed. Um
but there was a lot of in the
paleolithic period there was a lot of
exercise and there was very little
carbohydrates in the diet. So uh so
consequently we would uh rarely if ever
be in a state uh of obesity or let's put
it the way type two high glucose levels
unless of course a type 1 diabetic or
something like this would have happened
and those folks probably would have not
survived. So the bottom line is we move
from uh hundreds of thousands of years
in that kind of an existence to uh an
existence around farms. But of course
there was still a lot of activity,
physical exercise and things to harvest.
They didn't have the machinery and
things that we have today. So there was
always a good degree of exercise even
though we began eating more
carbohydrates. So and the carbohydrates
were not refined and processed. They
were all natural from the grains that
that we ate. So the explosion of cancer,
obesity, dementia, all came within the
last probably hundred years as we began
to improve our technology uh and ability
to harvest large amounts of food and
then process these foods into packages.
And it's clear that is your origin. So
cancer is part of us. Cancer is our the
result of how we live our lives. It's
not bad luck. It's not any of these
kinds of crazy things that you hear the
genetics people talk about, but uh it's
the our diet and lifestyle that puts us
at risk for not only cancer, but all
these other things as well.
>> So, we've talked about a ketogenic diet
in response to cancer. And do you want
to talk a little bit about what a
ketogenic diet means for people who may
not know about that?
>> Well, you know, uh we we did that
because we worked in the epilepsy field
and we could stop seizures in children
with ketogenic diets. That was a a
substitute for water only fasting. Water
only fasting will uh manage seizures,
but you can't do it for very long. Um,
and cancer can be demolished by water
only fasting if people can do it long
enough. So, but you know, to keep people
uh at least have something to eat and
not throw you out of ketosis because the
tumor cells can't use fatty acids or
ketone bodies. We tested, we
interrogated all these tumor cells and
they can't use fatty acids or ketone
bodies. So if you lower your blood sugar
and elevate to a different fuel, then
the normal cells switch to the new fuel
and the tumor cells get hammered. So
they can't they can't do do that. So it
doesn't have to be just a ketogenic
diet. You can do it with a a
Mediterranean diet. You can do it with a
carnivore diet. You can do it with any
diet that will lower glucose and elevate
uh ketones, even a vegan diet. I mean
the the issue of course is that you have
to measure the ratio of blood sugar to
ketones in the blood, which is done with
a glucose ketone meter. Uh we published
the glucose ketone index calculator.
It's a way to let patients know whe
they're in the right zone to kill tumor
cells. And you can do that with any diet
and and and eating. Oh, you know, I'm I
I can't get down. I can't do this. Well,
stop eating. Just drink water. And then
all of a sudden, oh, now it works. The
the problem the problem is is that when
people have cancer, they're treated for
a lot of different kinds of things that
actually make it very very hard to get
into these new new nutritional states.
Uh and people have to know that. So, um
like you know, radiation and chemo,
steroids, and all these kinds of things.
they give patients very very hard to get
into the critical uh ratios that will
kill tumor cells because you're giving
therapies that actually raise the very
the very fuels that you're trying to
reduce. So this becomes counteractive.
This is all so simple if people
understood this is a metabolic disorder.
It's not a genetic disorder. So why are
you giving radiation and chemo to these
poor folks? I'm trying to kill cancer
cells. Well, they can't grow if they
don't have fuels either. So pull the
plug on their fuels. They're going to
die without toxicity. So why do
something that's going to cause all this
extra toxicity? And this is oh no we
don't talk about this. This is the this
is the problem
>> right and a turning
>> the problem.
>> Yeah. And a turning point for us was
Anel Keys in the 50s and 60s where he
talked about how fat is bad for us and
fat is what makes us fat. That was a
huge turning point in our history as far
as our health goes. Since then all of
our diseases have been on the rise since
we started with more grains, more
processed foods, more carbohydrates. So,
um, the ketogenic diet though, being in
a ketogenic state is not a fat diet. I
think it gets a bad rap because,
>> well, I don't know. I mean, it's it's
the natural ketogenic our ancestors
during the Paleolithic period had very
little access to highly no processed
carbs, right?
>> And where what carbs would they have a
fruit during the ripe season? Uh,
anything that might be a little bit have
any kind of a level of of of glucose in
it, but it was always very very limited.
It wasn't in excess like we have today.
And don't forget, we evolved as a
starving species. So, we can humans can
go a long time uh without eating. As
long as they have water, you know, we
can we can live for a long periods of
time. And people that are overweight uh
can live even longer. I mean, the long
the longest record uh was um Sheamus um
Barbari from Scotland who went 377 days
on water only. Of course, the guy
weighed like 450 pounds, but but that
fat is stored energy. It's the it's the
energy for the famine. So, we we were a
feast and famine species for the
majority of our existence on the planet
where we had plenty of food on certain
occasions and no food on other
occasions. So, we became kind of like a
a scavenger kind of a a species. But
that's who we are as a physiology. Then
all of a sudden in a very short period
of time like an eyelink you have massive
amounts of highly processed carbs and no
exercise uh sitting in traffic in front
of a computer available to processed
foods and the next thing you know we
have all these chronic diseases uh which
also impacts the nervous system causing
depression and all these other kinds of
it's a whole collateral groups of of
chronic diseases caused by uh our our
diet and lifestyle. So, and and and you
think people would know that, but we
have an obesity epidemic. So, apparently
either they don't care or they don't
know about it. So, what are you going to
do?
>> Yeah. And so, for a ketogenic diet, it's
lots of fat, some protein. You can do
low carb vegetables, low carb fruits
like berries, right? You just don't want
any processed food. You don't want any
of that.
>> I don't know. Everybody should take
their glucose ketone index measurements
and let them know. I mean, I don't
there. Some guy could eat berries.
Another guy might not be able to eat
berries. We're all different.
>> Yeah. Individual.
>> Yeah. And everybody who would want to
know if they're in nutritional ketosis,
uh, which is about 5.0 or below, um,
that maybe 10, but if you want to kill
cancer cells, you got to go to 2.0 or
below on the ratio of glucose in the
blood to ketones in the blood in a
millolar ratio. And that's available
through Keto Mojo, these meters that you
can buy on Amazon. Uh, they have the
free Libra, which is a constant glucose
monitor. And once they'll probably get
glucose ketone monitors in the future
with the technology. So people will
always know what level of ketosis
they're in at all times.
>> So there's no mystery here. So the vegan
wants to get in there, he can get in
there. The pescatarian, the carnivore,
the Mediterranean guy, doesn't make any
difference. And then they'll learn what
to eat and how much to eat under
whatever diet they they happen to
prefer. And then people come to know. So
for people who say, "Okay, so you want
me to be in nutritional ketosis, which
means I'm going to eat more fat than I'm
used to eating because I usually, you
know, live on carbohydrates. So am I
going to be trading cancer? Maybe I'll
kill the cancer cells, but do I then get
heart disease and have a heart attack or
have blocked arteries?"
>> No, I we you actually get super healthy.
Now, there is a there is a caveat, and I
learned that when we worked in the
epilepsy field. Every now and then, one
out of 500 kids just can't stop eating
the fat that they love so much ketogenic
diet
>> that they get insulin insensitive from
it and their seizures don't get
controlled. So, if a cancer patient
says, "Oh, I just want to eat fat." And
and and the next thing you know, they
they your your blood looks milky. Uh
we've seen that when when the mice and
people eat so much fat, your your your
um your serum uh looks looks milky. your
blood looks milky. Uh that that ain't
healthy. [clears throat] Okay, when we
say ketogenic diets, carnivore diets,
vegan diets, it's all done in calorie
restriction. It's not done by, you know,
going out and eating, you know, 15
avocados, you know, it's it's like um
everything is done with the meter. The
meter tells us it's a quantitative
measure. Takes all the ambiguity out.
Oh, can I eat this? Can I do that? I
have no clue, right?
>> Look at the meter. Everybody should get
the the glucose to ketone mo meter and
say, "Okay, I guess I can't eat that,
can I?" Okay.
>> Yeah, that's a great way to look at it.
I have a bio coach meter that I use a
lot uh recently. I had kind of gotten
away from it for a while. You know, when
I was trying to when I was trying to
lose the last few pounds a couple of
years ago, I was using it a lot so I
could keep myself in ketosis and make
sure I was eating the right amount of
fat, make sure my glucose was down. But
then, you know, you go into maintenance
mode. You know, I don't have I don't
have cancer. So, for me, it wasn't it
wasn't about it was about healing. It
healed a lot of things, but it was about
weight loss at the moment. And then I
just kind of went away from using it.
And I was shocked when I started using
it again in the last like week or so to
realize that I am not in ketosis. I am I
don't know which part I'm doing wrong,
but I was not in ketosis.
>> Well, I don't know um if it's, you know,
in our society, I think now that we have
so many wonderful and I'm also not
telling people you can't eat a ham a
McDonald's or a Burger King or Taco
Bell. I mean th those things are very
very tasty and they can bring enjoyment
uh to a lot to a lot of people. I I
think they just have to always recognize
that uh if you want to stay healthy, uh
you might want to uh temper a little bit
on some of those things or or use them
as kind of a treat rather than a a daily
substance because we know that they're
harmful in constant large quantities
because you wouldn't have all these
health issues if if we were all in a
paleolithic. Now, obviously during the
Paleolithic period, there were a lot of
things that could kill us like an
infection, uh being gored or attacked by
an animal or fallen off a cliff and or
any we didn't have a lot of the medic.
So, your your longevity on the planet uh
would probably not be as long um as it
would have been for as we have today,
but we're living longer, but I don't
know if we're living at a healthier at a
healthier state than than those than
those previous times. But uh we
certainly know what we should do. Um but
we're not getting I don't know if we
should say is it the government's
responsibility? Everybody says
government is too intrusive already.
>> Why should the government tell us eat
that or don't eat that? I think
everybody has to make their own decision
a as to what as to what they know. With
the information available now anybody
can go out and look and say okay I know
what I need to do. But the problem is is
that nobody very few people know this
and or even understand what's going on
and they think yes eating fat will make
them fat. It's very hard to get fat. Fat
is either burned on the spot or it's
excreted. It's really not stored except
the triglyceride backbone is two
triglycerides can be made into a sugar
molecule but you're burning energy to do
that. So um so yeah you can only get
carbo we don't we our bodies store
carbohydrates in the form of fat. That's
why our kidneys are very very effective
in re in rec capturing all the sugar or
carbohydrate glucose that we eat and
recycle it back into the fat cells. The
only way you start peeing out sugar is
when you have a diabetic situation. Uh
in which case there's clearly a major
disturbance in metabolism. But we store
all carbohydrate if we don't burn it
right on the on the spot. we store it in
fat. Fat we can't store as carbohydrate.
We accept some little parts of it. But
so so the wor the best way to gain
weight if people really want are feeling
that they're too underweight uh is to
eat a large amount of sugar with fat.
>> So the body looks at the fat as saying
wow we have plenty of energy and then
let's store every single molecule of
sugar in our fat cells. So the best way
and that's called the icing on the cake.
If you take cake icing, it's lard, which
is fat, mixed in with powdered sugar,
and maybe a chocolate or a vanilla
flavor. And boy, that'll that'll you
don't you don't have weight. You can eat
eat the icing on the cake. That'll put
the weight on you, you know.
>> Yeah. And I was going to say, and that
is what people are doing on a regular
basis, every day, all day these days, is
they are eating large quantities of
carbohydrates or sugar along with fat by
way of French fries, with the, you know,
with children with their happy meal or
with the quarter pounder. It is possible
though to eat in a ketogenic state and
fight the diseases
going in a fast food direction.
>> That's absolutely true. But it's isn't
it more pleasurable to be in a in a
happy meal state? I mean uh because
obviously if people were if if if people
didn't want to be in that state, you
wouldn't have the obesity epidemic that
we have. So, um, it's obviously easier
to eat happy meals and do all this other
stuff than to sit down and eat an
avocado with no cracker. You Let's be
[laughter] honest.
>> Well, that's what I was going to say.
>> Piece of meat. I mean, right. When
people eat a big side of beef, they like
to have a potato or or something to go
along with. Nice piece of bread to sap
up the juices with a nice slab of butter
on it. I mean, let's be honest.
>> Yeah.
>> This is not something we're going to shy
away from,
>> right?
>> In our house, we meet with a side of
meat. So, we have steak with bacon or
steak with beef bacon or something like
that. You know, we mix it up. But it is
possible to go to fast food restaurants.
You just have to do some research.
Wendy's, Burger King, Five Guys,
McDonald's, they're all 100% beef. So,
you can go in there and stay in a
ketogenic state by getting, you know,
just the burger, the burger with the
plastic cheese and the bacon even. I
mean, you can do it.
>> I know you can, but it's much better to
have the bun.
>> Unfortunately, that's true. But stop it.
We're trying to help people here.
>> Well, I'm just telling you. I mean, this
is not, you know, always some crazy guy
going out. I mean, you ever see those
people? Oh, I can't have the bun. And
they're always the most overweight guys.
The heaviest weight guys are the ones
that are always fearing the bread. You
know,
>> I I I went to a party the other day and
there was a guy there who I don't know,
but I heard him ask. He had a whole
plate full of food and pie and biscuits,
right? And cornbread. He had all this
food and some potato soup. You know,
some white potato soup that's white
because of all the flour in it, right?
He had all this food and then he says,
"Do you have any unsweet tea?"
>> I know
>> that [laughter] was the problem.
>> Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I mean, it's true.
That's not the problem.
>> Absolutely. You know, my grandfather uh
did that when he had diabetes. This is
years and years ago. And uh he he he
would have a big piece of chocolate cake
after the meal and then he had a piece
of s a little saccharine tablet that he
would put in his coffee. and and he
wanted to let everybody know how re how
resilient he was putting the saccharine
tablet in his black coffee while he ate
this monstrously large chocolate cake.
So, I mean, uh this is what people do.
>> I know that's what I'm saying is like
just think about it for a minute because
the sugar if it was real natural sugar
in the sweet tea is better for you than
the potato soup filled with flour.
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> I mean, so think about those things,
people. Like, think about the choices
that you're making. Well, you know,
people like to have contests, you know,
and um they can go out and see who can
get the the highest GKI, that's where
your blood is almost like crystal sugar.
>> That's horrible.
>> You have no you have no ketones in your
[laughter] blood at all. So, um I mean,
and that's, you know, when you see the
people with blood sugar levels of 3 400
milligrams per deciliter, I mean, these
are diabetic, these are are not healthy
situations at all, you know. So you're
trying to bring that blood sugar down to
55 to 65 milligrams per decal liter
which is hard believe me water only
fasting will do that but those are the
those are the states that will kill
tumor cells because don't forget tumor
thrives on high glucose and glutamine
the other amino acid and those two we
need drugs to target glutamine. There's
no there's no diet that will lower
glutamine. Exercise will lower glutamine
but uh you really need drugs. So that's
what our strategy has been. It's been um
diet and drugs synergistic effects of
diet drug combos uh while in states of
nutritional ketosis and that seems to
kill and a lot of gradually destroys the
tumor cell over time uh and you
gradually get healthier and also it
reduces your type two diabetes, your
hypertension, your high blood pressure,
all that other stuff goes away as well
from the folks that have done this. So,
so clearly this works. But is it easy?
No. I'm not going to say it's a piece of
cake, right?
>> You know, try not eating for several
days. You'll know what you have you're
up against. And there's some folks that
will never do it. They just say the hell
with it. I'll just take the chemo and
the radiation. I'm not doing this stuff.
But you they should at least be offered
the opportunity to to know about that.
Oncologists should should be
knowledgeable about that. But they they
right now there's this does not exist in
any significant way in any any
healthcare institution uh that I know of
in this country. And do you think it's
safe to say that if somebody followed a
really good, clean, nutritional
ketogenic diet that they could avoid
cancer altogether?
>> You mean like our Aboriginal folks?
>> Yeah.
>> The answer is yes.
>> You want to live like an aborig or a
caveman? Um
>> well, with modern conveniences, yes.
>> Well, there you go. Yeah.
>> I mean, you know, it depends on your
outlook, right? Like I want to be here
for my kids and my grandkids and so I'm
going to do what I need to do.
>> Yeah. Well, and then you know, you're
just, you're right, you can do it. Um,
it's not easy, but it certainly can be
done. Uh, and you know how hard it it's
really very very hard to get cancer if
you live in your natural diet and
lifestyle. So, even if you have chemical
car like the the monkeys in the zoo, the
chimps and the gorillas, um, they rarely
get cancer. Uh, in fact, there's never
been a documented case of of breast
cancer in a female chimpanzeee uh in in
uh u in in in zoos, let's put it that
way, right? And and um and and breast
cancer is now approaching taking over
heart disease for women. So, so what's
going on? The chimpanzee is is in the
drinking. I don't know. I mean, he's
living in the same general environment.
There's humans that are living around
the zoos where these chimpanzees are. So
what's and they're he's breathing the
same air as as we are. He's living in
the same general environment. The only
thing different is he's following his
diet and lifestyle that he evolved as a
species to mostly f do. And we're not is
this not a complicated thing here?
Right.
>> So
>> yeah. So in fact I I we have a study
that we've looked at over and over again
from from South America. They took these
South American macaks or whatever,
Reese's monkeys or something and they
rubbed chemical carcinogen tar on the
monkeykey's arm for 10 years and then
they started to inject these monkeys
with the chem the carcinogens and and
they got one monkey out of 10 years out
of all these monkeys that had some small
growth and their conclusion was uh these
monkeys are not good models for for
cancer. So so I mean and and and and but
you know it's hard to get cancer. You
really have to beat the crap out of your
body uh with all kinds of lack of
exercise and terrible foods. Uh and well
maybe smoking and drinking and all the
other things we have to the chimps and
they don't usually do that but there are
but that's what we'd have to do to show
that we could get chimpanzees to get
cancer. They would have to be smoking
and drinking alcohol no and eating
completely different diet than they
normally would. And then but of course
they say that's animal cruelty. So we
have to use ourselves
>> as as control. So um you know and our
Aboriginal ancestors rarely if ever got
cancer. In fact Albert Schwitzer the
humanitarian couldn't find 40,000
Africans he couldn't find any cancer the
that were living according to their
traditional ways. So so everything in my
mind is diet and lifestyle. It's not a
genetic disorder at all. The mutations
come from from once the cancer starts
they produce reactive oxygen species
which are carcinogenic and mutagenic. So
the mutations in the nucleus that people
are all focusing on are all downstream
effects uh of of the damage to the uh
energy metabolism of the tumor cell. So
everything in my mind is completely
explainable and and targeting this
process has tremendous therapeutic
benefits uh if people know how to do
that. But you're not going to hear any
of this if you go to the top medical
schools into their oncology centers. In
fact, they won't even they might not
even know about that glucose. They never
heard of auto warberg may most of them
don't don't know not all of them don't
know that sugar drives the disregulated
growth. So how can the you manage the
disorder if the academic institutions
and the medical institutions themselves
are not up todate or understand or
compliant or even wanting to know uh
this information. There's no conspiracy
here. It's just a massive lack of
knowledge and inability to move on on
the the knowledge and truth.
>> So, if you're watching this video and
you want to do one thing to stay healthy
and and be healthy and be around longer,
the one thing you can do is cut out
processed foods and sugar and then check
get yourself into nutritional ketosis,
especially if you're already sick. If
you already have dementia, Alzheimer's,
>> and also exercise, make sure you that
you keep that exercise up daily. aerobic
exercise, weightlifting, all this stuff.
This is what our ancestors had to do.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. I mean, they weren't sitting
around in the front of a computer or a
television screen or sitting in traffic.
I mean, they were out working. They had
to do things otherwise they weren't
going to start they're going to starve
to death. So, we evolved it. We have to
be active and we have to have a d a
lifestyle. But that doesn't mean you
have to cut out the pleasures of of your
life. I just think you have to moderate.
That's
>> and find pleasure.
>> Most most humans are not moderate
creatures.
>> Yeah. Right. Well, or find pleasure
somewhere else. Like I'm an abstainer.
So I have to abstain completely from any
kind of sugar, you know, and things like
that. Or else I want I mean the week
that I became a carnivore, I had eaten
20 cupcakes in 36 hours. Like I am an
abstainer. I have to completely stay
away from it. So there are other ways to
find pleasure. We have just made every
single function, every place we go,
everything we do about the food.
Everything is about the food. So like,
and that's fine. You can do that. just
choose the right foods, right?
>> Well, it's not only us. I mean, you
could go to the zoo and see everybody. I
mean, the the happiest days of the of
the existence is when they're pounding
something down, whatever they're eating,
>> cows are munching all day long.
>> I mean I mean uh you know, so yeah, I
mean fish everything is like looking for
the big next big meal, right?
>> Right. Yeah, that's true. [laughter]
That's true. But we can choose the right
things. We can choose our ancestral
appropriate diet.
>> Yeah. You ever watch a dog eat? I mean,
this dog is like inhaling. I don't even
think they spend time chewing the food
they eat.
>> Right.
>> I know. That's right. So, um, so what's
your what's the best way for early
detection that you can think of? Because
all the time we all know somebody who
found out they had cancer and then
almost right away they were so sick, you
know, and then they were gone within a
few months. How do we protect ourselves
against that? Is there is there a way?
Are there tests that we should be doing?
Well, some people put the problem off
for a long period of time allowing it to
get much worse than it was. I mean, you
know, early detection, but when you when
you have a diagnosis of cancer at the
beginning when you are first diagnosed,
the conditions or the symptomatology may
not may not be so catastrophic. Uh some
people say, "God, I went for a checkup
and now I find out that I have stage
three cancer. I never even knew I I had
this. So, your body is strong and
healthy. Uh, and that's when you attack
the the metabolic weakness of the tumors
at that point, putting patients at risk
for poison and toxic poisons that they
give to some of these cancer and and
surgical mutilations. You know, our
strategy has been to bring the patient
back into a full state of health, shrink
down the tumor and if it can be
completely debulk with surgery, they
should do they they can I can't say what
should be done and what not should be
done. I'm not a physician. All I can say
that gives them an opportunity to debulk
and cut it out leading to a potential
cure. So, uh shrinking it down.
Sometimes it goes away completely uh
through non-invasive like you said PET
scanning MRI CAT scan all these kinds of
whatever they use it non-invasive ways
of looking at lump looking at the lump
the lump went away or whatever
>> or it goes down to a very small lesion
which can be easily surgically removed
either by the surgeon or even from a
proton beam radiation as long as it's on
a very focal spot and there's so many
ways to manage cancer without putting
the patient at risk for damaging the
body making all these horrific toxic
effects, hair loss. Uh, every time I see
a bald-headed person who's been treated
for cancer, I say the person who's
treating them has very little knowledge
about the biology of the disorder
they're treating because you're trying
to kill cancer cells and why why would
you what hair fall out? What what did
they think cancer cells are in each hair
follicle? Why would your hair fall out?
>> Uh, makes no sense. Well, it stops all
dividing cells. Yeah. In your gut. I
mean you you have a breast lesion or or
a prostate lesion. Wh why why should
your gut be blown to pieces and your
hair falling out? Um that speaks to the
lack of knowledge on the part of the
industry and how to treat cancer. So um
each person should be their their own
control and knowing uh what to do not
these mass uh groups of people that are
all you know po starve to death to
matter that the the the fact is that we
don't know how to treat cancer because
the know the theory under which the
disorder is viewed is incorrect. Once
you realize it's a metabolic disease,
then the strategies are are so many
non-toxic ways and each person would be
their own control, you know, and
determine, oh, you've been diagnosed
with potential stage four cancer, which
means that you are terminal and you're
living beyond 10 years and somebody
says, at what point does this thing
become terminal or not? So uh again your
whole view of what and how to manage
this disorder must change otherwise uh
we're still caught in the rut and this
is all knowledge based and we and others
have shown clearly that this disorder is
a mitochondrial metabolic disorder and
the gene mutations are downstream
effects and most of the treatments today
look at targeting the tumor cells rather
than the whole body itself and
marginalizing the tumor cells by
depriving them of their fermentable
fuels. this is not generally known and
the resistance is there's no clinical
trials. Uh it's not going to generate
the same revenue as the other strategies
have generated. So you put all that
together and there's going to be a
tremendous resistance in adapting this
new approach to managing cancer. So
people have to put the pressure on these
institutions. The guys the guys are that
are there are not going the top guys are
not going to make any changes. They're
they're very comfortable in in what they
they they look like. they know stuff.
You put on a nice white coat and a tie,
you walk around with a name tag, makes
it look like you know something. But,
you know, when it comes to we got 1,700
people a day dying from cancer. Obvious.
Now, don't get me wrong, we have
millions of cancer survivors using
standard therapies, right? Called cancer
survivors. But many of them pay a huge
price. uh they have all kinds of damage
to the brain, the body, hormones, gut
disturbances, bone density problems,
neuroscychiatric problem, hormonal
issues. I mean, of course, that's what's
going to happen if you took any bunch of
people in a radiated and poison them.
You're going to have all kinds of uh
adverse effects if you survive the
radiation and poisoning. And then your
body will come back and say, "Oh, I got
a different kind of a cancer. I never
had this before." Well, damn. I mean, so
all this is perfectly understandable and
explainable. It's just that uh and the
folks listen scientific literacy is
really important. You're living in a
technological scientific age. You don't
know jack about this. You're going to
you're going to be suffering. You're
going to pay the price for your lack of
knowledge people. So, they better wise
up. Otherwise, you're going to be on the
end of somebody's inappropriate
treatment strategy.
>> That's right. You got to be your own
advocate. That is so important to do
your research. And if your doctor says
something that makes you question it,
find a new doctor. Go get a second
opinion.
>> Yeah. you know, and cancer especially, I
think, but you know, obviously for hip
replacements and shoulder replacements
and some of these other kinds of
procedures, the technological advances
have been astonishing, uh, astounding, I
should say. And um, I think we we need
to um recognize where medicine has
really improved our overall uh, health
and survival and and where it where it
hasn't. And the cancer field is is one
of those areas which is uh medieval in
its uh current practices.
>> Yeah. And don't just stay with your
doctor because you like your doctor or
because it was your doctor last time you
had cancer. You know, do your research,
question your doctor, and if they get
upset with you for questioning them, you
should go get a second opinion for sure.
Don't you think?
>> Yeah. You know, it's really very un it's
very uncomfortable um situations when
you have this nice guy
>> who's very friendly and then you begin
to question his practices and all of a
sudden he doesn't become as friendly and
then you feel bad making him upset. So
the whole thing is not is not
>> but this is your health and this is your
life. So
>> yeah,
>> do the research, learn stuff.
>> You don't want to you know he went to
medical school and he did a lot of
training and he paid a lot of money to
go this and now all of a sudden you're
questioning what what he's doing.
>> Yeah. and and and and he feels upset and
you feel embarrassed and he's embarrass
I mean it's not a good thing and it
shouldn't be that way. uh the patients
he should be knowledgeable enough to say
listen we're not going to deni if
somebody wants radiation and toxic
poison nobody they're not going to be
denied the people say I listen doc
poison and radiate me as much as you can
and I'll see if I survive you know we're
not going to they already do that
actually that's
>> that's the norm
>> that's the norm actually but uh it
doesn't have to be that way that's my my
point here and we have the solid
research that we've done to show it does
not have to be that way we have not only
people but pre-clinical studies all
showing that you can manage cancer. I
don't say cure cancer, I say manage
cancer. You can improve overall surviv
survival and quality of life
significantly over what we're currently
doing. Does a person is cured of it? Who
knows? They should be just thankful
they're living longer than they were
predicted to live and their quality of
life is good. That's what they they
should be happy about that. Oh, give me
a cure for cancer. Well, listen. The
person curing for cancer comes from a
combination of diet, drug, lifestyle,
and what that person is capable of
doing. Okay? And we don't throw out all
standards of care. These standards can
be used in appropriate times at the
right place, timing and scheduling. Some
of the imunotherapies that we hear
advertised could be very effective as a
last uh part of the treatment rather
than at the beginning. So everything is
there. We just have to know how to use
all the tools that are available.
>> Yeah. Well, I think this is a great
place to wrap it up. Dr. Seaffrey, thank
you so much. It was such good
information you gave us today.
>> Yeah, thank you very much.